
# Lesson 010: OpenStack, mapped by the dashboard (45 min)

-- *Slide* --

# Roll up to the Research Cloud mystery tour!

Your tour guide is ...

-- *Slide End* --

(First: Do a personal introduction. Who am I, and why am qualified to teach this course?)

-- *Slide* --

## Why do you care about this?

-- *Slide End* --

Two researchers at a well known University, who and which shall remain nameless to protect the innocent, needed to 
do some fairly complex statistical analysis. So out of their grant money they bought two powerful computers, at a 
cost of $10 000 per machine to run [MatLab](http://au.mathworks.com/products/matlab/?nocookie=true) on.

But on the first run, they found that the machines couldn’t work with their data sets. The machines were underpowered! 
They were forced to iteratively spend money on upgrading those machines, until finally, one was able to perform the 
required analysis. It had taken them 12 months from the date of purchase to get to this point.

If, instead of purchasing hardware, they had turned to the cloud, they would have been able to have had their initial 
machine running within minutes. 

If it was underpowered, they would have been able to upgrade it to a larger machine, again within a matter of minutes. 
They probably wouldn’t even have had to re-install the software.  

The really good news for researchers is that everyone with an AAF login can experience this game changer for themselves, 
at no cost: through the national Research Cloud (NeCTAR) project.

If Research Cloud had been around with their current funding model in place when those two researchers were setting up 
their project that’s $20 000 of grant money that could have been used elsewhere!

-- *Slide* --

### Question

Currently, how much does it cost a researcher to use the Research Cloud?

1. Gazillions!
1. Squillions!
1. Billions!
1. Some unknown $$!
1. It’s currently free **at the point of service**

-- *Slide End* --

**Answer E**

-- *Slide* --

## Wait: there's more

### Storage!

-- *Slide End* --


There's another powerful reason to use the Research Cloud: access to storage which is kept locally in Australia and 
available on the high speed [AARNET](https://www.aarnet.edu.au/about-us) backbone. Think of it as a USB stick on
steroids!

And all of this is backed by a research facing organization that is not driven by profit.

But before you go rushing to the Research Cloud, there are some important gotchas that you have to understand. 
The cloud environment is a not quite the same as dedicated computer on your desktop! 

What I hope to do today is to give you enough information to get your own machines up and running on the
Research Cloud, and to explain the gotcha’s.

How I’m going to do this is, is to start with an overview the Research Cloud parts through a very high level drive 
through of the Research Cloud web dashboard. Hence the Research Cloud mystery tour title for this session.

Then in the following session we’ll launch and access a machine.

By the end of the first two sessions you should be able start up and manage your own machines on cloud. You’ll also 
know where to go for support when things turn to custard! 

## Log in to the dashboard

**Q:** It's part of the [prerequisites](../../Prerequisites/README.md), but just to check: has everyone here logged
into the Research Cloud dashboard before today? 

-- *Slide* --

### Have you logged into the NeCTAR dashboard before today?

* <span style="color:white;background:red">R</span> = No, I haven't :(
* <span style="color:white;background:green">G</span> = Yes, I have!

-- *Slide End* --

**A:** You are hoping to see green here, as this means helpers are going to have to possibly walk red people through
the process later on. If you do see only green, be happy.

-- *Slide* --

### Trial Projects

-- *Slide End* --

The first time you log on to the Research Cloud dashboard, you get given a **free** trial project, with three-months 
worth of time if you run the largest computer you are allowed to on it all the time. 

If you only use your smallest computer for short periods of time, and terminate them religiously after each run, you 
will find that your project/tenant should last far longer. 

But even if your trial project has expired, you can still log in to the dashboard to view and request 
allocations. You can even fill in an allocation request to extend your existing project/tenant!

Regardless of your path, your project/tenant should give you the time to learn the Research Cloud ropes!

-- *Slide* --

### What's your trial project lifetime?

1. for ever and ever after
1. three months from today
1. depends on how much I use it... 

-- *Slide End* --

**Answer: C** But it will be B if run your free computer(s) flat out!

So always **terminate** your free computers once you've finished working with them. That way you can avoid the
asking for allocation extensions paperwork.

## Follow my leader

-- *Slide* --

### Question

Can you log into: [https://dashboard.rc.nectar.org.au](https://dashboard.rc.nectar.org.au)? 

* <span style="color:white;background:green">G</span> = I'm logged on!
* <span style="color:white;background:red">R</span> = I'm having issues. Help!

-- *Slide End* --

Now that everyone has logged in, we are going to play a short game of "[follow my leader](http://www.thefreedictionary.com/follow-my-leader)".  
As I have the big screen, I’m going to be the leader. So there!

What I’d like you all to do is to follow along in your browsers, trying to do what I do. 

    Now stop, and ask the audience to introduce themselves to the person on either side of them (if they don't
    know that person). Then let them know that these are the people that they will turn to first for help if they
    have any problems with the lesson. They are only to put up red cards if neither person on either side can't help them.
    So if a red card goes up, you are expecting to see a row of red cards!

And I’m going to be asking questions as we go long, just to see how well I’m doing!

Having logged in, you should all be at the home page of the dashboard.

**Q:** Does anyone have anything very different from what’s up on the screen in front of them? 
Please hold up a Red sticky not if the answer is "Yes"  and a Green one if the answer is "No".

**A:** Hoping for a lot of Greens here, as anything else is a problem!

## Project drop down

At the top of the dashboard are two drop downs.

The one on the left shows the projects that you belong to.

In OpenStack parlance, a project is: 

"*A logical grouping of users; it defines quotas and access to computers*."

And every project has a project ID: A "[User-defined alphanumeric string; the name of a project.](http://docs.openstack.org/glossary/content/glossary.html#project-id )"

So a project is really just a way to group people together and to set constraints on what operations they can do on 
the Research Cloud.

But here’s the interesting thing: you can belong to one or more projects. That’s why a drop down is used. By using it 
you can toggle between the different projects that you belong to, and work collaboratively within the constraints of 
the currently active project.

To the left of the dashboard is a tabbed menu system giving access to the operations and resources bound to the project. 
Dependent on your project, and your rights within the project, the menu system will expand and contract as you switch 
between the projects. The project panes to the left control your access to the resources of the cloud.

**Demonstrate:** If you belong to more than one project, toggle between them to show changes in the menu 
system to the left of the page.

As mentioned, everyone who logs into the Research Cloud via the AAF gets a small time limited trial project. 
This project is prefaced by the words "pt" ([**p**roject **t**rial](http://support.rc.nectar.org.au/docs/allocations)) and 
followed by a number. So mine is, for example, pt-30.

**NB:** If you have multiple projects, get into the habit of always looking at the entry shown in this drop down 
before you do anything major, simply to confirm that you are in the correct project. You wouldn’t believe the trouble
I’ve got into by launching VM’s in the wrong project!

**Q:** Can all those people who have multiple projects make sure they have their personal project selected?

Please hold up a Green sticky note if your project is prefaced with the character  "PT", and a Red one if it’s not.

**A:** We are hoping for Green to be shown: otherwise there’s a problem...

## Settings drop down

The drop down on the right is the settings drop down. It’s not exactly the most intuitive of drop downs IMHO.

If you select it, you’ll see that there are three options: "Settings", "Help" and "Sign Out".

### The Help Menu

**Activity:** Get everyone to select "help" on the settings drop down.

**Q:** Are you all looking at the dashboard - or at something else?

**A:** Hold up a Red sticky note if you are still looking at the dashboard!
       
A new tab has opened, taking you to the homepage of the Research Cloud support site. 

The support site has loads of useful documentation. It has beginners guides, online training,
and knowledge bases.

There's also a handy link that if followed tells you how to contact Support.

-- *Slide* --

### Question

Something's broken, I've tried reading the documentation, still stuck, what do I do!?

1. Call 1300 080 431
1. Panic
1. Open 'Chat now' window
1. Email your head of department 
1. Click on 'ASK FOR HELP'

-- *Slide End* --

**Answer: A, C, E**

The support site is well worth exploring.

-- *Slide* --

### Can you find the NeCTAR training site?

Is its URL:

1. https://dashboard.rc.nectar.org.au
1. https://support.nectar.org.au
1. http://www.nectar.org.au/ 
1. http://training.nectar.org.au/
1. http://status.rc.nectar.org.au/

-- *Slide End* --

**Answer:**

Those are all useful NeCTAR website addresses to know. Especially the status site.
But the answer is D, http://training.nectar.org.au/

This is where you can go once you return to your homes, and look to increase your understanding of
the Research cloud, the home of your free computer and usb stick!

But we are not going to explore the support site now.

Remember, you now know where to go when you want to find helpful documentation.

-- *Slide* --

### Close the support tab of the browser and return to the dashboard.

* <span style="color:white;background:red">R</span> = I've lost the dashboard!
* <span style="color:white;background:green">G</span> = I'm good to go!

-- *Slide End* --

Between the two drop downs NeCTAR have placed a new item titled "Support Ticket". 
This is your first port of call if you need help.

-- *Slide* --

### Click on the "Support Ticket" link of the top bar of the dashboard.

* <span style="color:white;background:red">R</span> = I can't see it!
* <span style="color:white;background:green">G</span> = I've clicked!

-- *Slide End* --

The dialogue you've brought up allows you to directly submit a help request. 

But it has a search option on the right! 

This allows you to try to find the answer to your problem yourself before you reach out by completing the form.

-- *Slide* --

### Search the knowledge base for "allocation"

When managing an allocation, what does an approved allocation request become?

1. a tenancy
1. a project
1. a collaboration
1. an empire
1. a chore

-- *Slide End* --

**Answer: B**

Once you've done a search, if you still need help, just complete the fields in the dialog and 
submit your support request.

The one "gotcha" is the **default email address is the one shown in the dashboard settings drop down**. 

-- *Slide* --

### Is the default email address the one you want to use?

* <span style="color:white;background:red">R</span> = No!
* <span style="color:white;background:green">G</span> = Yes

-- *Slide End* --

If you want responses to go to a different address, change it!

To close the dialogue without sending anything just click on cross to the left **or** the dashboard behind it.

Accidental clicks on the dashboard can be annoying!

**Activity:** Get people to close the dialog and return to the dashboard.

**Q:** Does anyone have anything very different from what’s up on the big screen in front of them?

Please hold up a Red sticky not if the answer is "Yes" 
and a Green one if the answer is "they are about the same".

### The Settings Menu

**Activity:** Get everyone to select "settings" on the settings drop down.

**Q:** Notice how the "Project" tabbed pane on the left side of the dashboard has been collapsed and a new "Settings" 
tabbed pane has been added below it? 

With "User Settings" as the currently selected tab.

The settings on the "User Settings" tab affect your dashboard interface. You can set your preferred language and 
the timezone you are in. 

These changes affect only you, as a user, but they do cover all projects! 

**Activity** Go ahead, and change the language to, oh say Polski! (to see the effect).

So that we will all see the same interface today, change your language and time settings to match mine.

**Q:** Does anyone have anything very different from what’s up on the screen in front of them?

Please hold up a Red sticky note if the answer is "Yes" 
and a Green one if the answer is "they are about the same".

**Activity:** Select the "Reset Password" tab

**NB:** Do not try to use this password to log into the dashboard. This password has nothing to do with the dashboard!

You log into the dashboard using your AAF credentials. However, the AAF doesn’t work too well with command line 
applications. So here you generate a password to use with command line applications.

-- *Slide* --

### If you reset this password

* <span style="color:white;background:red">R</span> = All applications using it will stop working!
* <span style="color:white;background:green">G</span> = Nothing happens to applications using it...

-- *Slide End* --

**Answer:** The Red's have it: your applications will need their password reset, across all projects!

So that’s the Settings tab and its children. Site wide changes that work across all projects.

So remember: if you want to change your personal details, the top right drop down with your name on it is the way to go!

And that the password is for **applications only**!

-- *Slide* --

### Question

Which one of these can’t you do with your settings dropdown?

1. Change your command line password
1. Change your dashboard language
1. Change your time zone
1. Change your currently selected project
1. Find the documentation site

-- *Slide End* --

**Answer: D**

-- *Slide* --

### Question

If you reset your password under the settings drop down, which is correct?

1. You are free of the AAF requirement!
1. Your AAF password is changed
1. Your institutions password is changed!
1. Applications that interface with the cloud will be affected
1. None of the above
  
-- *Slide End* --

**Answer: D**

## Overview tab

Ok. Now we'll click on the Project tabbed pane, and then the Compute Overview submenu.

**Q:** Does anyone have anything very different from what’s up on the screen in front of them?

Please hold up a Red sticky not if the answer is "Yes" 
and a Green one if the answer is "they are about the same".

The overview tab simply gives an overview of your projects usage of its allocated resources. When a pie chart is full, 
your project is at its quota limit for that resource type. And they are colour coded, so problems should stand out.

The project overview tab is your default home page when you log in. So these limits are put fairly and squarely in 
front of your face.

## Project Tab

Going back to the project tabs to the left:

You should be able to see that it’s essentially a menu system made out of nested tabs.

The top level tabs within on your personal project should be

* Compute
* Object Store
* Orchestration
* Allocations

Click around on these tabs and their children to show how they expand and contract, and how the 
screens change according which tab is selected. They only change when the leaf tabs are selected.

The *Compute* tab is where you manage all of your computer resources.

The *Object Store* is an ideal replacement for the usb sticks that some people tend to carry 
around with them: any file that you give it is backed up in at least triplicate. You can upload and download 
files from any browser: and you can share the files with the world.

*Allocations* is an important tab: Once you’ve messed around in your personal project, and found that it’s not big 
enough for serious work, this is where you come. It’s basically an online form that allows you to apply for a proper 
project with enough resources to support your research.  You can also request to have your project/tenant extended.
You do this by selecting the "Convert project trial" option.

Remember, Compute and the Object Store are two separate items: one is where you manage your computers, the other is a 
data store. They are not linked in any way, and can be run without the other.

### Project -> Compute -> Images Tab

**Activity:** If you could all join me on the Images sub-tab of the Project tab.

**Q:** Is everyone on the same tab as me?

Please hold up a Red sticky note if the answer is "No" 
and a Green one if the answer is "Yes".

**Concept alert:** What we have here is simply a listing of files, each being a copy of a hard drives contents. Each 
file is termed an "image".

How the Research Cloud works is that you select a file that is a copy of the contents of a hard drive when you 
launch your machine. That file is copied across to wherever your machine is going to be run and becomes the 
basis of your new machine's hard drive.

**Demonstrate:** Do a whiteboard drawing of this.

And also note: If that image file is in Melbourne, and your computer you are launching is in Tasmania, it might
take quite a while for the copy to get to Tasmania...

Across the top of the list of images are four filters that are reasonably self explanatory.

1. Project - the images that are visible only to your project. 
2. NeCTAR official - the images that Research Cloud share with the world. These are simply images of operating 
   systems.  Whilst on this list NeCTAR is keeping them current. 
3. Shared with me - the images that other users have opted to share with you. 
   Sharing images with others requires the use of command line tools, so it's a more advanced topic that you will
   have to leave till you are more familiar with the research cloud.
4. Public - the list of images that others have shared with the world. These mostly already have applications
   installed on them, ready to run.

As new users to the Research Cloud it is unlikely that you’ll have either project or shared images. Those come 
with time. 

So the image you’ll start your adventure on the Research Cloud with is most likely to be a NeCTAR one.

**Q:** So here’s a thought experiment: you fire up a machine that uses a NeCTAR image as it’s base. NeCTAR then 
release a new copy of the image with a security update applied. Remember, your machine is based on a copy of that older 
image. Is it likely to have that update applied to it as well?

**Demonstrate:** Do a whiteboard drawing of this.

Please hold up a Red sticky note if the answer is "No" 
and a Green one if the answer is "Yes".

**A:** No. the only way to benefit from that update is to start up a new machine based on that new copy that NeCTAR 
have provided. So you have to either do a lot of maintenance on your running machine, or start from scratch on a regular 
basis.

One common way of working is to start up a machine based on a NeCTAR image, then to install your own software onto it, 
and then to make a copy of its hard drive as it runs. This copy is written back to the images store. 

This process is called "making a snapshot".

This saves you from having to reinstall the software next time you launch a machine. 

**Demonstrate:** Do a whiteboard drawing of this.

**Q:** Again, if you build your own image like this will it benefit from NeCTAR’s updates to the original
file you copied?

Please hold up a Red sticky note if the answer is "No" 
and a Green one if the answer is "Yes".

**A:** No, the files are not linked in any way. 

(NOTE:  Once you make snapshot, you need to update it regularly and re-save it. Otherwise it just won’t
get all the security upgrades that are released for the software on it. Also, its a good habit to
immediately update all the software on a newly created machine. You can never be too paranoid!)

**Q:** And lets be paranoid: if you launch a machine based on a public image about which you know nothing,
and the software on it asks for your credit card info, do you type it in?

Please hold up a Red sticky note if the answer is "No" 
and a Green one if the answer is "Yes".

**A:** I wouldn’t. At least, without a lot of digging. You can’t trust the software on an image unless
you know and trust the people behind the image. 

## Walk through of a launch

We are going to walk through wha'ts required to turn one of those images into a running machine.

### Project -> Access & Security Tab

First, I need to set the environment that will control access to the the machine. To do this I go to the 
"Access & Security"

This page has a further three tabs across the top.

### Project -> Access & Security Tab -> Security Groups

The first one of these child tabs I'm going to visit is the security group tab. 

By default a machine brought up on the Research Cloud can reach out to the world via the network, but the world 
can’t reach in. 

Security Groups simply allow you to specify what network traffic is allowed to reach your machine in the cloud..

So I need to make sure that there are security groups that specify what network traffic is going to reach a machine
I launch. In this case, I want a security group (or groups) that allow both ssh and http.

HTTP is required to allow web browsers to access the running instance.

SSH is required to allow us to access the instance to manage it. You can see it as giving us access to the
administrator interface.

###Project -> Access & Security Tab -> Key Pairs

The next tab I'm going to visit on this page is the key pair tab.

"What's a key pair?" I hear you not ask.

Ok way back when, in the olden days, say when Greece ruled the known universe, and say you were a wealthy merchant 
named Pem, lets agree that I borrowed a lot of money from you and then relocated to a remote city.

How would I know that the man in front of me claiming to be your emissary, now here to collect your cash for you, was 
the correct person?

And the answer used by some was ingenious. We’d take a clay seal and break it in half. I’d take half, you’d keep half. 
Your emissary would hand me the half of the seal that you’d given me and if it matched mine I’d hand the cash over. 
Obviously there is quite a lot of trust in the system. And you’d want to keep your half of the seal private: 
under lock and key. Me? Meh, not so much.

Keys are a very similar concept. They have two halves. Anything you encrypt with one half can be decrypted by anyone 
with the other half.

On this tab you create key pairs. NeCTAR will keep one, the public key, and you will download the private key, the 
other half, to your local machine.

When NeCTAR fire up a machine for you, they inject the public key into your machine. Anyone with the private key will 
be able to communicate with and control that machine. Like the clay seals of yesteryear, you want to keep your private
key in a secure location. 

Now I've got lot's of keypairs to choose from: If I didn't I'd either have to generate one, or import one.

-- *Slide* --

### You’ve lost your private key. Will you be able to access machines you've launched with it?

* <span style="color:white;background:red">R</span> = No!
* <span style="color:white;background:green">G</span> = There's always hope

-- *Slide End* --

**A:** The reds have it! The chances are extremely high that you've lost your machine for good.

### Project -> Instances Tab

Having set up the environment that controls access to the the machine I'm next need to launch it.

I do this by going back to the instances tab.

This is simply the place where you get to see the information about all your running machines. 
Note that I say "machines", as you can run more than one computer should you so choose. The only
limit is the one defined by your allocation.

It is also one of the places that you can use to launch your free computer.

Which I now do by clicking on the "Launch Instance" button.

**Action** Do a walk through of the dialogue, remembering to add your keypair and security groups!
Show the Flavour changes, and also that some images don't work with some flavors...

**NB:** Make a point of of showing that the boot disk is called the 'root disk'.

**NB:** Make a point of noting that some of the flavours have extra "ephemeral" disk

Then launch it.

Ok, while that starts up, lets walk through what’s happening behind the scenes.

**Demonstrate:** Refer to the whiteboard drawing of this

The image file that I’ve chosen to be the basis of my root disk is copied from where it is being stored to the
physical machine on which it is going to be used. This physical machine is called the host. 

We say "host" because the free machine you are launching is ordinarily going to be a "virtual machine". 

A virtual machine is one that is simply software and hardware working in concert to emulate a real machine. You can 
think of it as being a program pretending to be a computer. Much like your desktop computer can run many applications 
at the same time, such as ms-word, and excel, etc, a Research Cloud server can run many virtual machines at the same 
time.

If that seems complicated, look at it this way: you have a small closet - with clothes in it. AKA, a computer. 
But you also have a very big closet - the server: into which you can either put clothes, or, perhaps more efficiently, 
lots of copies of the smaller closet, thus giving you better space utilization, and the ability to have different
people securely share the larger closet.

So here’s a question. You have a virtual machine running. It makes all kinds of changes to its root disk. Which are
simply files on the host server. What happens to those changes when you terminate your virtual computer?

-- *Slide* --

### Question

What happens to your Virtual Machine's root disk when you **terminate** it?

1. It gets copied back to the image store
1. It gets ‘snapshotted’ for you to use again
1. It’s left on the host server, for you to use when you next launch a machine
1. It gets destroyed. Wiped. Cleaned. Gone!

-- *Slide End* --

**Demonstrate:** Refer to the whiteboard drawing of this

**Answer D:** The image is simply wiped.

So by default your virtual machine has what is termed "ephemeral" drives. Anything written to these drives will be
lost if the associated virtual machine is terminated.

Rebooting or restarting its associated virtual machine does not cause your data to vanish. But if you 
terminate it, then, whatever you wrote to these drives will be lost the minute your virtual machine exits.
All upgrades, security patches, whatever data you wrote, everything is lost.

This is one of the reasons why people like snapshot images so much. You work with your machine a little, you make a 
snapshot. The next time you start up from the snapshot, work with it, snapshot it when you are done.

This only works for the root disk. It’s not the worlds greatest way of doing things as any other ephemeral disk
beyond the root disk won't have its data saved.

I've seen this ephemeral storage take grown developers by surprise when they first start using the Research Cloud. 
It has just about reduced them to tears. Don’t be like them - trust nothing on the cloud!

Now, I've been saying "terminating", but if you look at a running instance you will see that you have many different
options for halting it. Which begs the question:

-- *Slide* --

### Question

When does my free PC on the Research Cloud get destroyed (along with all its data)?

1. When I do a soft reboot on my VM
1. When I terminate my VM
1. When I pause my VM
1. When I stop my VM
1. When I do a hard reboot on my VM

-- *Slide End* --

Pick out the wrong answers first to provide explanations of what they are!

A paused VM is simply halted in memory, ready to be started again.
A stopped VM has its state written to the host machines disk, ready to be resumed from there.
A soft reboot tries to do a graceful reboot (you ask the OS to reboot).
A hard reboot just reboots the machine! (you press the button)

**Answer: B** 

(Once the machine is finally launched, point out the IP address in the dashboard)

Every machine that is launched on the Research Cloud is given an IP address. This is it’s location on the 
internet.

NeCTAR unfortunately only have a small pool of IP address to use.

So when you terminate your instance, the IP address is returned to the pool and allocated to the next machine that 
starts up. But like the transient file system, it is not lost during reboots.

-- *Slide* --

### Question

When do I lose my IP address?
 
1. When I do a soft reboot on my VM
1. When I terminate my VM
1. When I pause my VM
1. When I stop my VM
1. When I do a hard reboot on my VM
 
-- *Slide End* --

**Answer: B** 

Also know that if you **don't terminate your computer** then it will still be running down your allocation clock!
Stopped and paused computers are still consuming resources on the host computer!

    "An instance in shutdown state is still consuming resources on the
    compute node (disk space, ip address). The vcpus and ram to run this
    instance are also reserved (as the instance could start at any time).
    This is why an instance in shutdown state would count against an
    allocation."

Now knowing what's going on under the hood, you can understand why once you hit the "Launch" button there might be a 
delay before the machine runs - there's quite a lot going on.

-- *Slide* --

### Can you all find the Allocations tab?

* <span style="color:white;background:red">R</span> = No...
* <span style="color:white;background:green">G</span> = Yes!

-- *Slide End* --

*Allocations* is an important tab: Remember, once you’ve exhausted your trial project, this is where you come. 
It’s basically an online form that allows you to apply for a project with enough resources to support your research.  

-- *Slide* --

### Question

Can you find the option to convert your trial project on the allocation form?

* <span style="color:white;background:red">R</span> = No!
* <span style="color:white;background:green">G</span> = Yes, I can see it.

-- *Slide End* --

For the Reds: its the the "Convert project trial" option.

So we've explored the dashboard, learnt how to file a support request, and done a dive into the architecture of the
cloud, watched me launch a VM - and learnt about allocations.

-- *Slide* --

You can think of the Dashboard we've just explored as the drivers seat for an entire Data Centre: <br />
The Research Cloud. <br />
BUT it is a car you can crash! <br />
And we *want* you to crash it and restart it regularly...<br />
Don't be afraid: **\#failfast**!

-- *Slide End* --

