# Lesson VIII: (20 min)

-- *Slide* --

## The object store 

Your supercharged USB stick!

-- *Slide End* --

There's another powerful reason to use the Research Cloud: access to storage which is kept locally in Australia and 
available on the high speed [AARNET](https://www.aarnet.edu.au/about-us) backbone. 

There are different forms of storage available: but we are only going to look at the Object Store today.

The *Object Store* is an ideal replacement for the usb sticks that some people tend to carry 
around with them: You can upload and download files to it from any browser: and you can keep those files private,
or share those files with the world if you want.

Some people even publish whole websites from the object store!
 
On top of that, any file that you give it is backed up in triplicate, and each of the the copies is monitored for 
degradation.


    Try to draw something like the following on a white board as you talk...
    +------------+  +------------+  +------------+
    |   Copy 1   |  |   Copy 1   |  |   Copy 1   |
    +------------+  +------------+  +------------+
        ^               ^               ^
        |               |               |
        +---------------+---------------+------ Monitor

Any bit rot, and the faulty file is replaced with a good copy. 

    Update your drawing to show that a bad copy is replaced...

-- *Slide* --

## Who's scared of a big bad Cosmic Ray?

[http://tinyurl.com/cosmic-ray-wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cosmic_ray#Effect_on_electronics)

* <span style="color:white;background:red">R</span> = Yes: me!
* <span style="color:white;background:green">G</span> = What me, worry?

-- *Slide End* --

So the Object Store is a lot safer than than a random usb: not only do you not run the risk of losing it, you also
are safer from the occasional cosmic ray!

There is some terminology that you need to know.

Files are called objects. Unsurprisingly, since it's called the object store.
 
And objects go into ?

-- *Slide* --

### On the NeCTAR dashboard what's the Object Store's child tab called?

1. Directories
1. Loading
1. Containers
1. Boxes
1. Objects

-- *Slide End* --

Please hold up a Red sticky note if you need help finding it
Otherwise, hold up your answer...

**Answer:** C: Containers.

Yes, objects go into containers.

And this tab is where you create containers, and then put files (or objects) into the containers.

It is a very, very simple interface. So simple it's actually clunky IMHO. 

Now for a challenge. There is no checklist!

-- *Slide* --

## Save an image to the object store

Can you create a container named **resbaz**
in the Object Store and upload a picture to it? 

Then download and view the picture?

Once you are done, can you delete it all?

-- *Slide End* --

Please hold up a Red sticky note if you need help
and a Green one once you are done.

Having done that we are next going to upload and share an image with the world.

And yes, we have another checklist for you to follow.

-- *Slide* --

## Share an image

<div align="left">
▢ Create a container (make it private)<br/>
▢ Upload a picture into it <br/>
▢ Make sure you preserve the file extension when you name the object!<br/>
▢ Make the container public<br/>
▢ Click on the resultant public link <br/>
▢ Append '/' and the object name in the browser address bar<br/>
▢ Do you see the image in your browser? <br/>
</div>

-- *Slide End* --

Please hold up a Red sticky note if you need help
and a Green one once you are done.

You have just worked out how to build a url in your browser to access items in a container. 
If the container is public you can share these addresses and others will be able to access those 
files.

-- *Slide* --

### You mark a container as being public. Which of the following are affected:

1. Just the first file in the container
1. None of the files in the container
1. The mittens of celestial kittens
1. All of the files in the container
1. The last file in the container

?

-- *Slide End* --

**Answer:** D: all of the files in the container. So you need to use this feature with care!

- - -

Remember that at the start of this training today I pointed you to the NeCTAR training website?

Now for a challenge: are you able to use that training material to connect with CyberDuck?

-- *Slide* --

### CyberDuck and Swift!

[http://tinyurl.com/with-cyberduck](http://training.nectar.org.au/package07/sections/objectStorage.html#windowsmac-access-with-cyberduck)

* <span style="color:white;background:red">R</span> = Yelp!
* <span style="color:white;background:green">G</span> = All done.

-- *Slide End* --

-- *Slide* --

### The Object Store

Is hands down better than a USB stick!

* <span style="color:white;background:red">R</span> = Yes, I agree!
* <span style="color:white;background:green">G</span> = No, you've not convinced me...

-- *Slide End* --

If there are any doubters, be prepared to argue...


